0. Move an app to Azure Cosmos DB table storage

- Companies that use Azure Storage tables for business-critical applications may find that Azure Cosmos DB provides a better service for their needs.
- Azure Cosmos DB provides a more scalable alternative to Azure Storage tables and does not require developers to rewrite code.

1. Features of Table API

- It's a NoSQL database
- Each entity in the db can have different schema and it's to you to ensure that properties are organised and can work with
- Table storage can scale to any number of entities and any number of tables, can scale to large quantity of data.
- The scale limit depends on the type of Storage account you created
- It's replicate data to multiple locations to ensure high availability

2. Types of replication

- LRS (Locallyu redundant storage): data is replicated to a different scale unit in the same data center. If one node fails data still available but if the entire data center is down, data will be unavailable.

- ZRS (Zone-Redundant storage): data is replicated to three storage clusters. If one data center fails, data is still available but will be unavailable if there is a region-wide outage.

- Geo-Redundant storage: data is replicated to another region miles apart and still available even if there is a region-wide outage.

- Read access geo-redundant storage: data is replicated to another region where it is available for clients to read. This allows to provide a source of data that is closer to the users.

3. Features of Azure Cosmos DB

- Microsoft's globally distributed and mutli model database service, multi model because it can work with different apis
- Azure Cosmos DB includes Table API which means you don't have to rewrite your apps while moving from TAble storage to Cosmos DB, just change the connection string.


4. Differences between Azure Storage tables and Azure Cosmos DB tables

- Table names are case-sensitive in Azure Cosmos DB. They are not case-sensitive in Storage tables.
- Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is supported by Azure Cosmos DB.
- Batch operations are limited to 2 MBs.
- Row keys in Azure Cosmos DB are limited to 255 bytes.
- Query results from Azure Cosmos DB are not sorted in order of partition key and row key as they are from Storage tables.
- You are charged for the capacity of an Azure Cosmos DB table as soon as it is created, even if that capacity isn't used. This charging structure is because Azure Cosmos DB uses a reserved-capacity model to ensure that clients can read data within 10 ms. In Azure Storage tables, you are only charged for used capacity, but read access is only guaranteed within 10 seconds.

5. How to choose a storage location

- Read this section on the link below:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/store-access-data-cosmos-table-api/2-move-an-app-to-cosmos-db-table-storage

6. How to migrate an app to Azure Cosmos DB

- Microsoft provides two tools to accomplish the migration
- AZCOPY: command line tool only tool design to enable developers to copy data to and from Azure Cosmos DB. The process has two stages:
  - Export data from the source to a local file
  - Import data into Cosmos DB from the source file by specifying the destination url and access key.

- Azure Cosmos DB Data Migration Tool. This open source tool is built specifically to import data into Azure Cosmos DB from many different sources, including tables in Azure Storage, SQL databases, MongoDB, text files in JSON and CSV formats, HBase, and other databases. The tool has both a command-line version and a GUI version. You supply the connection strings for the data source and the Azure Cosmos DB target, and you can filter the data before migration.